# SGA README

Welcome to the SGA README document! Within this repository, we have a few different files that we will be explaining:

* SGA_Analysis.Rmd
    + This file contains just the analytical pipeline for the SGA analysis. 
    
* SGA_Example_DataSet.xlsx
    + This is an excel file which contains sample data that the authors created for the tutorial document. 
  
* README.md
    + This is the document you are currently on, which has some additional information that you should read before using this pipeline.
    
* SGA_Tutorial.Rmd
    + This document will explain and teach you how to use the SGA pipeline for analyzing data.

## Libraries
Here are the libraries we used, and the code you should use within the console to download them. Here we give a brief description of each package and the install command.

### library(dplyr)

A fast, consistent tool for working with data frame like objects, both in memory and out of memory.

install.packages("dplyr")

### library(ggplot2)

Create Elegant Data Visualizations Using the Grammar of Graphics

install.packages("ggplot2")

### library(readxl)

Import excel files into R. Supports '.xls' via the embedded
'libxls' C library <https://github.com/libxls/libxls> and '.xlsx' via
the embedded 'RapidXML' C++ library <http://rapidxml.sourceforge.net>.
Works on Windows, Mac and Linux without external dependencies.

install.packages("readxl")

### library(tidyverse)

The 'tidyverse' is a set of packages that work in harmony because they share common data representations and 'API' design. This package is designed to make it easy to install and load multiple 'tidyverse' packages in a single step. 

install.packages("tidyverse")

### library(viridis)

Color maps designed to improve graph readability for readers with common forms of color blindness and/or color vision deficiency. The color maps are also perceptually-uniform, both in regular form and also when converted to black-and-white for printing. This package also contains 'ggplot2' bindings for discrete and continuous color and fill scales.

install.packages("viridis")

### library(ggpubr)

The 'ggplot2' package is excellent and flexible for elegant data visualization in R. However, the default generated plots require some formatting before we can send them for publication. Furthermore, to customize a 'ggplot', the syntax is opaque and this raises the level of difficulty for researchers with little R programming experience. 'ggpubr' provides some easy-to-use functions for creating and customizing 'ggplot2'- based publication ready plots.

install.packages("ggpubr")

### library(knitr)

Provides a general-purpose tool for dynamic report generation in R using Literate Programming techniques.

install.packages("knitr")

### library(kableExtra)

Build complex HTML or 'LaTeX' tables using 'kable()' from 'knitr' and the piping syntax from 'magrittr'. Function 'kable()' is a light weight table generator coming from 'knitr'. This package simplifies the way to manipulate the HTML or 'LaTeX' codes generated by 'kable()' and allows users to construct complex tables and customize styles using a readable syntax.

install.packages("kableExtra")

### library(tinytex)

Tinytex allows RStudio to properly format LaTex files, or files with LaTex characters in them. 

install.packages('tinytex')
tinytex::install_tinytex()

## Common Unicode ID's

For all unicode characters, there is a backslash, followed by a unicode ID.

Here are some common character ID's:

* Delta: u0394
* alpha: u03B1
* beta: u03B2
* gamma: u03B3
* zeta: u03B6

For all other symbols, search in this website for the unicode: https://www.fileformat.info/info/unicode/char/search.htm 
* When writing the unicode in R, don't include the "+" in the code.
  
## Reading in Data

### Excel
* read_excel(file.choose(), sheet = "")
* read_excel("file.path", sheet = "")

### CSV
* read.csv("file.path", sheet = "")
